>> Hello and welcome to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
This is a show about Haskell, a purely
functional programming language.
I'm your host Taylor Fausak.
I'm the Director of Software
Engineering at ACI Learning.
And I'm very excited because today
I have a special guest with me,
Marco Sampellegrini, the author
of The Simple Haskell Handbook.
Thanks for joining me today, Marco.
>> Hey, thanks for having me.
>> And we were talking before
about challenging last names.
My last name is challenging and yours
is too, so I want to get it right.
Could you say your own name,
so that way we have it?
>> Sure, so my full
name is Marco Sampellegrini.
>> Alright.
I'm not going to try it because
I know I can't do it, but I
wanted to get it on the record.
So, Marco, could you
tell us about yourself?
What do you do?
>> Yeah, so I recently
started consulting.
So, sometimes that involves Haskell.
Sometimes it doesn't.
Previous to that, I worked with a
variety of companies in a variety of
technologies and programming languages.
And I recently published my first
book, The Simple Haskell Handbook,
which is available on Leanpub.
And it's currently in the number
one spot in the top books section.
>> Congratulations!
>> Yeah, thank you.
I'm really proud of that
and really grateful.
And I would like to thank
everyone who's purchased the book.
I'm really grateful.
>> Yeah.
And we will put a link to Leanpub
in the notes for this episode.
So if anyone listening wants to
go grab it, it'll be right there.
So, yeah.
Again, congratulations on
being on the number one spot.
I think that really speaks to
the desire of the community
to have this type of resource.
And could you tell us like,
what is this book trying to do?
>> So this is a book I kind of wish
I had when I was getting into Haskell.
So I really missed up practical resource
where I could, you know, get to understand
what the workflow was like in developing a
Haskell application and what the mindset.
Like what the process would
look like, if you will.
And initially my idea wasn't to create
a book, it was to create that sort of a
video course or some sort of screencast.
But I quickly realized that that would
have taken me like 10 years to complete.
in order to get like three minutes of
decent video material, I had to spend
three hours between recording and editing.
So that was completely out of
the --- out of the table for me.
And the way it shifted to becoming
a book is that I --- at some point I
thought: well, if I have a script that
I can follow when I record my videos,
maybe the process will shorten a bit.
And so I started writing the script
in a very conversational style.
And I had all of the, you know, code
snippets in between so that I can type
them out when --- while recording.
And it turns out that doesn't really
improve the situation when recording.
But I kind of enjoyed writing that.
And I realized that if I formatted
it properly and, you know, packaged
it up nicely, maybe it could become
a self-standing product that could be
as useful as the original video idea.
>> It's interesting, you
don't often hear about writing a
book being like the easy way out.
Usually a bit of a struggle.
But yeah compared to video,
it definitely seems easier.
>> It has been a struggle.
Don't get me wrong.
It took me a few months to write.
But I had, you know, these urge to share
with the community something that could
be helpful to intermediate Haskellers.
And I know --- and I knew that,
you know, there was this need
because I've gone through the
process of learning Haskell myself.
And I kept wishing
something like this existed.
So hopefully, you know,
it's doing its job.
>> So you mentioned that you've
worked with some other languages,
both in the past and still currently.
When did you start learning
Haskell, and what kind of drew
you to it in the first place?
>> Yeah, so I started out with
PHP and a little bit of JavaScript.
And honestly, that's been the most fun
I had in my career because I was just
churning out code that like crazy.
And I didn't care about bugs or errors.
That wasn't even in my mind.
But, you know, as time went by and as I
joined bigger teams and started working
on more complex applications, I realized
how broken my code was and how difficult
it was to work with other people.
And, you know, without the aid of
static tooling, like  a compiler or
any, you know, any types whatsoever.
And so that's what brought me --- that's
what prompted me to look for a
better experience, a better language.
Up to that point, I didn't even
consider that I would write code
in a statically typed language.
Like that seems so backward to me.
Why would you write more code?
Why would you --- why would you give
up all the freedom that you have
with dynamically type languages?
But eventually, you know, I discovered
Haskell and I started looking into it.
I couldn't understand
anything of what I read.
It really was too foreign
for my brain at that time.
But luckily I found out about Elm and
that was really what made me click.
That was my introduction
to functional programming.
And it really was super helpful in,
you know, laying a good foundation
to eventually upgrade to Haskell.
>> Yeah, I have heard that a lot
about Elm being kind of the gateway drug
into Haskell, or Haskell type languages.
And we found that to be true
here where I work as well because
our front end team works in Elm.
And that was actually the first thing
that got us working with Haskell.
Cause we saw that and were like,
Hey, that's actually pretty nice.
We want some of that on the backend.
>> Yeah, I agree.
Like, I really don't understand
when people complain about Elm.
Like you hear things like, oh, it sucks.
It doesn't even have type classes.
Oh my God.
But yeah, that doesn't make
any sense to me because, you
know, that's why by design.
It doesn't have type classes.
And it's great that it doesn't, because
it makes it so much more approachable.
>> Yeah.
>> To people that
are just getting started.
>> Absolutely.
Well we don't need to re-litigate all the
complaints against Elm on this podcast.
We'd be here all day.
But I agree with you.
I think Elm is a great language.
So turning our attention back to the book.
It's an intermediate kind of
exploration of a project in
Haskell but what is it building?
What's the book about?
>> Yeah, so it was very
important to me to find a project
that was kind of real world.
Like I think there's very little
point in building a to-do list or a
blog or a clone of some popular app.
Mostly because it would do
a disservice to Haskell.
I think if you would build the same
thing in a popular framework, like
Laravel or Rails, you'd get a much
better experience, unfortunately.
Because there is so little business
logic involved and so, other frameworks
outshine Haskell, unfortunately.
So I wanted to find something that
had a somewhat involved domain.
And something that would allow me to
show other features of the Haskell
runtime, like STM or, you know, stuff
that as developers, we do all day long.
So making HTTP requests
and that kind of stuff.
And, you know, I'm a big fan
of Drone, which is a popular
continuous integration server.
I've used it in production.
And I always admired its simplicity.
It's basically a glorified shell
script that invokes Docker containers.
And so --- and so I thought, wouldn't
it be nice to have a simplified
clone of Drone written in Haskell.
Like, that would allow me to showcase
all of the features that I cared about.
It would allow me to have multiple
nodes running at the same time.
And, you know, it would have
a quite, well not complex, but
like an interesting architecture.
And yeah, so that's where Quad came out.
>> That's a good name.
So yeah, in this book, building Quad,
a continuous integration server,
And I like what you touched on there
of, if we were looking at a simpler
project, like, a to-do list, most of
the stuff would just be boiler plate.
And you don't really get to
show off Haskell strengths.
So you mentioned STM.
I think another thing that Haskell
really excels at is async stuff.
So running multiple
things at the same time.
And I think, Quad ends up with a bit
of like a job queue going on as well.
So yeah I just want to say, like, I
really liked this approach of the book
and the problem that you're solving in it.
I think it's a good way to
show off Haskell's strengths.
>> Thank you.
Yeah.
And yeah, async is another thing that.
It's so difficult to get right in
other platforms, in other languages.
You know, working with Node, dealing with
concurrency is an absolute nightmare.
And it's so easy in Haskell
to spawn green threads.
As you say, there is a fairly
primitive job queue in Quad.
I say primitive because it
processes only --- like agents can
only process one job at a time.
But that's mostly because I wanted to keep
the number of lines of code down, rather
than any deficiency in the runtime, which
has first-class support for concurrency.
>> Right.
And you know, this is still an
intermediate level book, so it's not
really expected that it will be a
totally production ready system at
the end, but it's still nice to show
off the ability to do this stuff.
>> Sure exactly.
>> So another choice that
you made with this project was to
use a Rio or RIO as kind of the
basis for the application itself.
Why did you choose that?
>> Well, as, you know --- as anybody
who has worked with Haskell a bit, for
a bit, would know: the prelude in base
is unfortunately still pretty broken.
And it doesn't come with a lot of
the stuff that you would end up using
in pretty much any Haskell project.
And so the rio package
comes with two great things.
One is the, you know, an
alternative to the default prelude.
The other is their Rio monad in which
you're supposed to write the, you
know, the entirety of your application.
And I debated whether, you know,
using the Rio monad in the project
would have been a good idea.
And it's probably --- it would have
probably been too much to talk about.
And it would have kind of, you know,
shifted the focus a bit from let's
actually use practical haskell and
let's not focus on any specific library.
But still, I love the fact that
you can bring in the Rio prelude,
and it comes with, you know, text.
It comes with a lot of collections.
You called it modules, out of the box.
And it removes a lot of the
partial functions that are
available  in the prelude in base.
It's just a well-thought-out prelude.
I really, really like it.
And generally I like everything
that Michael Snoyman puts out.
Like, I use Stack all the time
and, you know, Conduit is nice.
a really nice package.
>> Yeah, he produces a lot
of great tooling and libraries
and stuff for the ecosystem.
And Rio isn't something that I have
actually used all that much, but I
definitely appreciate the alternative
prelude aspect, because like you
say, the prelude in base has a
strange amount of problems with it.
Like it isn't safe, it has
unsafe functions in it.
And it doesn't give you a lot of
the things that you might expect
from a standard library, like a
hash map or something like that.
So, yeah.
Pulling it all in with
one library is super nice.
And Rio isn't the only
one, but it is a good one.
>> Sure, sure.
There are others, for sure.
>> So speaking of Michael Snoyman,
he had that blog post, I think it was
a blog post, recently about either
simple Haskell or boring Haskell.
Was that him?
And I can't remember which term it was.
>> Yeah, he called it boring Haskell.
>> Boring, okay.
And I know you talk about
this in the book a little bit.
So could you --- could you talk
about: what does that mean to you?
And why did you choose to
put it forward in this book?
>> Yeah, let me say, I've never
talked to him and I don't think we
actually, or rather, I don't think
he actually agrees on a lot of the
things I say about simple Haskell.
And that probably his definition
is different than mine.
Although I do like what he said in
that blog post that you talked about.
But yeah, the main idea behind
simple Haskell is that, you know,
GHC comes with a lot of stuff.
It lets you do basically anything
in a million different ways.
And that's because, you
know, it has a huge heritage.
It has been around for 30 years
and it's been serving, somewhat
surprisingly, like it's been serving
successfully two very different crowds.
On the one hand you have academia
and language researchers.
And on the other hand, you have the
industry and people that use Haskell
to write real world applications.
And so, it is kind of natural for
researchers to use this tool as a --- you
know, as the tool to do their job.
And so the outcome of that, for
better or worse, is that we end
up with a huge compiler with
a ton of extensions available.
Often the way they interact with
one another is not very clear.
Often they break the
compiler in unexpected ways.
And so --- and the other issue is
that as a beginner or intermediate
Haskeller, it's very hard to tell, you
know, what are you supposed to use?
Like what --- how do people
even accomplish anything in this
language on a day-to-day basis.
With all the breadth of choice available.
And so simple Haskell was like
my --- was my way of saying:
look, it's not that complicated.
You don't need to
understand category theory.
You don't need to read all the
papers that come out and that
people discuss over and over.
If you're unsure these are the
set of extensions and the set of
features that I find very useful
and that I'm very productive with.
And you know, it's not like
a hard set of extensions that
you ought to use, obviously.
But it's a good starting point.
And if you are in the same position as
I was, where I was completely oblivious
to what I was supposed to use and
what I wasn't supposed to use, then
I think having, you know, a good set
of defaults would be pretty useful.
>> I agree.
And I think especially for a beginner, it
can be really valuable to have somebody
who knows what they're doing say: just use
this and it'll probably work pretty well.
You know, it may not be best
in the world, but it's not
going to be bad and it'll work.
And furthermore, I think that for --- in
our community, in the Haskell community,
there is a lot of advanced material.
So stuff that's talking about, you
know, the latest language extension
that's only available in GHC
head or like some effects system.
And that's all really good and
interesting, and I like reading
about it, but at the same time, you
don't need to know that stuff in
order to implement, you know, really
useful programs like a CI server.
So, I think there is maybe room, like
--- someone could take your book or the
service you produce in your book and say:
well, you know, let's throw an effect
system at this and see what happens.
Or let's throw this language extension.
So it can be a nice way to, to contrast
the simple versus the more complex
>> That would be,
yeah, kind of interesting.
love to see that.
>> The Complex Haskell Handbook.
Somebody can write that one.
And another thing that --- kind of
related is that you throw in some
language extensions that I would
categorize as quality of life extensions.
Like they don't really change your
expressive power, like what you can do,
but they make something nicer to use.
So like block arguments, I
think is a --- or lambda case.
So what motivated you to
throw those into the mix?
>> Yeah, exactly.
So my --- I guess it's
all about ergonomics.
Like it's  accepting the fact that
Haskell 98 or Haskell 2010 is, as
you say, sufficiently expressive
for most day-to-day tasks.
It still has some sharp edges that
we can eliminate with some extensions
that are, you know, only dealing
with the ergonomics of the language.
But they're not fundamentally
changing the type system in any way.
And so, you know, that's
good enough for me.
It makes the language nice to work with.
And I find the type system and the
type checker to be sufficiently
powerful for my use cases.
So that's good enough for me.
>> Yeah, I agree.
And for those types of extensions,
it's often syntactic sugar.
So it's relatively easy to explain to a
beginner, you know, If you turn on lambda
case, you can write this form that is
equal to this other form you might write.
It's pretty straightforward.
>> Exactly.
>> Versus, you know, if
you turn on, I don't know, data
type contexts, what happens?
I don't know.
Go read a paper.
>> Yeah, yeah.
Cross your fingers.
>> Right.
So, like I was talking to you before
the show started, I haven't had an
opportunity to read the whole book.
So we've hit the point now where
we've talked about everything
that I'm aware of in the book.
What else is in there that
I haven't asked you about?
>> Well, it kind of flows in
a natural fashion, I would say.
So if you --- if you've gone a quarter
of the way in, the format stays pretty
much the same all the way to the end.
One thing that I find is particularly
interesting is that we don't get to
write the main function until the
very last chapter, I think it is.
So there's no actual running of
the application until the very end.
And all the --- like the way we make
sure that we are writing the correct
code is by writing integration tests.
And, you know, they --- in the
integration tests, we spin up actual
Docker containers and we make sure
that the builds run correctly.
But we don't get to actually Stack run
the application until the very end.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah.
And --- which, you know, it's
something that --- again, another
goal I had with this book was to
actually showcase a lot of the things
you constantly hear about Haskell.
Like refactoring in Haskell is great.
Or I don't run my --- I don't have to run
my program to make sure that it's correct.
I often, you know, talk with the
compiler for two or three hours, and
then only when it compiles, I give
it a go just to make sure it runs.
But I can be fairly
confident that it would work.
And so these two aspects were
very important to me in the book.
Like if you're writing a to-do list,
you're not gonna appreciate how good
the refactoring aspect is in Haskell.
Whereas by starting with, you know, a
simplified version of a CI server and
reaching it as we go through the book,
you get to see which type errors come up.
And you get to see exactly
how the compiler is helping
you in fixing those errors.
And maybe it's, you know, a case in a
pattern match that's missing, or maybe
the signature for a function has changed.
You don't get really to to
appreciate that with a toy project.
You have to, you know, get
a little bit more involved.
>> Right.
You have to have something that
works and does something, but
then you, want to change what
it does or add something to it.
And then you're like, oh yeah, This
is what refactoring is in Haskell.
>> Exactly.
Which is amazing, but it's
very hard to showcase it.
>> Right.
Well, I look forward to getting to that
part in the book and seeing that happen.
I also got to say that I love the approach
of working, not with the like top level
executable, but with the individual
pieces and testing those and, you know,
to use the buzzword it's test driven
development, which I'm a fan of but you
don't really frame it as that in the book.
It's just kind of like, let's write this
thing and then let's prove that it works.
Of course.
What else would you do?
>> Yeah, I don't frame it like
that because if I --- like, if I
had --- if I said that it's TDD, you
know, people would complain that it
lacks, you know, a hundred unit tests
for every little function that I have.
So in general, even when I write
for real world code, I tend to
write bigger integration tests
that kind of cover all of my bases
instead of a million unit tests.
Obviously it depends on
what it is that I'm testing.
But it kind of follows my approach
in the real world as well.
So are there a few very broad
tests, and I'm okay with that.
I find that it's a good balance between
coverage and the amount of code.
>> Yeah, I like
that approach as well.
I think that aiming for like a
hundred percent test coverage
or writing a unit test for every
function --- in the end, just makes it
more difficult to refactor your code.
Because you have to also
deal with all these tests.
And part of the appeal to me of writing
tests in the first place is that it
should make refactoring easier and more
confident because I can run the test and
make sure that everything still works.
So it seems kind of self-defeating
to write tests that make it
harder to change your code.
>> Agreed, yeah.
100%.
>> Um, to throw another buzzword
into the mix here, the way that
you're describing the development
of this application seems to me
to be bottom up versus top down.
So like, you know --- in opposite land,
opposite you would write the book where
you start with main equals undefined,
and then you start filling that in.
So is that how you approach
development day to day?
>> Well, on a day to day
basis, I'm much more --- like, I
scramble all day long, essentially.
But that's fine.
Like that's where the
fun is for me personally.
And as long as you're not throwing, you
know, crazy PRs out there, but you're
all doing it on your local branch and
it's somewhat look nice in the end.
I'm fine with that.
And I have to say that the way the
book progresses is kind of artificial.
Like it's very --- it is premeditated.
Like all the little pieces
and the way you add one thing
after another, after another.
And it all seems to flow together.
It is, you know, it took me a
while to figure out how to actually
make it progress in a way that
isn't constantly going back to
something that we just changed.
Or going back to a module that we
haven't touched for a hundred pages.
I really tried to make it
flow as nicely as possible.
And obviously when I'm writing
an application, even when I was
writing this application, my
code was all over the place.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm not ashamed to say that.
I just think, you
know --- it's fun for me to.
And maybe it's my dynamically
typed background where I used
to do all sorts of crazy stuff.
That's just the way I
approach programming.
>> So you're telling me
that the book was premeditated.
You didn't live stream this
whole book from start to finish?
>> Nah, it took me months.
No no, definitely not.
>> Well, yeah.
I was just, I mean --- same with TDD.
You know, bottom up versus top down.
It's not a hard dichotomy.
It's not like oh, I do all my
development top-down or all bottom up.
But I think it can be interesting
to approach problems in either or
even both ways where you say, okay,
I'm going to start top down, but
then I kind of hit a roadblock and
I don't really know where to go.
So I'm going to flip and
do bottom up for, awhile.
and that's how I develop.
And it sounds like maybe
you're, you're similar.
>> Yeah, exactly.
And, you know, with typed holes and
the trick of putting undefined where
you're not sure how to fill something,
you know, you can really get far.
And I think I use both tricks in the book.
So that --- those are like the
basic Swiss Army knives that
all Haskellers should know.
And it's, you know, it's
great to talk about them.
>> Yeah.
And in addition to like, highlighting
how nice refactoring is in Haskell and
how easy it is to change things, I think
doing undefined and typed holes also
shows like, I don't know, I guess it's
kind of the initial refactoring, like,
or the factoring, I guess the first one.
It shows how nice it is to say, I don't
know what goes here, but something
does and I'll get to it later.
>> Yeah, yeah.
It's really great.
>> And then you touched on something
which I think is a bit of a meme either in
the Haskell community or about the Haskell
community, which is: once it compiles,
it probably does what you expect.
And I've found that to be largely true.
Like, you know, there's some caveats
and some asterisks there, but have
you found that to be true as well?
>> Well, spoiler alert: it doesn't.
So.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, there is --- like
the beginning of part two
of the book touches on this.
And I think it's really, really important.
Like, even if you get all of
your --- like your program to compile
and you use all the most advanced
techniques to get the most correct
program you could possibly get.
At the end of the day, you're still
talking with the other systems and you're
still dealing with databases and networks.
And that's where, you know,
most errors come from.
And so, even if we're writing our
application in Haskell, it doesn't
mean we can assume that everything
else is gonna behave correctly.
Because that's never going to be the case.
And I find that in Haskell applications,
a lot of the errors and bugs often
stem from these, you know, glue code
and plumbing that unfortunately is
necessary to write and to deal with.
And so, yeah.
Having an application that
compiles doesn't equal, it
will run fine in production.
>> Right.
Like even though you're making a valid
HTTP request and all your types line up,
still you're sending it over to, you know
the Docker socket and maybe you typoed
something inside one of those strings.
Yeah,.
that's where TDD comes back in.
Very important to have
those integration tests.
>> Agreed.
>> Cool.
So is there anything else
we haven't covered about the
book that you want to get to?
>> I think we said
pretty much everything.
>> So then now it's
just: buy the book, right?
>> Cool.
Well
>> So, yeah.
I mean, clearly there's more
to you than just the book.
Is there anything else that you
want to talk about, or that you
want people to know about you?
>> Well, one topic that I
kind of think about a lot is a
future of programming languages.
And whether I'd still be writing
Haskell in 10 or 15 years.
Or how Haskell is supposed to evolve,
you know, to still be relevant and
still be around in that timeframe.
And, you know, I'm --- I mean,
I'm always curious to know what
other people think about the topic.
And I can give you my take.
And then we can maybe discuss this a bit.
But I think this is very, very
interesting topic that we can maybe
>> I agree!
I think this is super interesting
And I'm eager to hear your take.
>> Yeah, so.
Despite everything we've talked about
so far, about simple Haskell and keeping
things simple and all that, I actually
think for Haskell to be relevant  in 15
years, it should embrace dependent types.
Which is kind of counter intuitive, right?
We said the opposite up until this point.
But like, it seems to me that most
mainstream languages will eventually
catch up and will implement most of
the Haskell features we know and love.
Like I can't believe mainstream
languages won't have union types
and won't have exhaustive pattern
matching, in 15 years time.
And so Haskell has always
been on the cutting edge.
It's been around for 30 years,
but what is going to make it
relevant in another 15 years?
And, you know, I --- if other, the
programming languages evolve this
way, and you know, other very nice
languages come out during that timeframe.
Like Scala three has just recently
being released and it looks really,
really nice with a nice syntax and
all the crap about implicits removed.
So --- and a very nice runtime as
well, because the jVM is rock solid.
So what is going to make me pick
Haskell, you know, in 10 years time.
And, you know, obviously
dependent types are a big bet.
We don't really know if
they're going to work out.
We don't really have a programming
language is that are dependently typed
outside of Idris and Agda, which we
can agree nobody's using in production.
>> Yes, as good of
a languages as they are.
>> Exactly, exactly.
So, yeah, I'd be interested to
know what you think about that.
Whether Haskell can continue on this
trajectory of kind of pleasing everybody.
And having dependent types
kind of bolted on with a set of
extensions that are kind of fragile.
whether it should go all in on that.
>> Yeah.
I, think that --- so for me personally, I
am not that excited about dependent types.
I've played around with Idris
and --- conceptually or intellectually,
I really like the unification of
like, let's not have a value level
language and a type level language,
and you can do different things in
each of them and it's all arbitrary.
So that totally makes sense, but like the
actual ergonomics, or maybe the power to
weight ratio, doesn't feel right for me.
That being said, I think that, like
we talked about with simple or boring
Haskell, one of the challenges in Haskell
is that there are so many language
extensions that interact in weird ways.
And with dependent types, I think
most of them would be --- would
go away, and be subsumed by the
dependent type language extension.
So, that might be nice.
You know, rather than having at the top
of your file, here's 20 lines of language
extensions that you need in order to
use Servant or something like that.
Instead you just say, hey, I want
dependent Haskell, and now I can do
all this stuff in a really nice way.
I think that would be great.
So that's kinda my personal view, I guess.
To your, you know, like --- Haskell
has been on the cutting edge for
so long and other languages are
probably gonna pick up its features.
I think that's true.
It has been true and
will continue to be true.
You know, languages these days often
have enums and pattern matching
and exhaustiveness checking.
So like, yeah.
What will make Haskell unique?
Why would you pick it instead of Scala?
And dependent types is a good one.
I think linear types could be in
the mix as well, but then, you
know, we have Rust with affine
types, kind of proving that out.
So yeah, maybe Haskell 15 years
from now will be the pure,
functional, lazy, dependently
typed, linearly typed language.
That's a lot of qualifiers.
>> Yeah, yeah.
I mean, the thing you said
about ergonomics, I think is
really the core of the  issue.
Like using dependent types today
is completely unergonomic, and
that's what pushes me away from it.
But we really don't have any data
about what a dependently typed
big application, would look like.
So I'm really curious to see if that's
the kind of path Haskell will go through.
And, you know, with the Haskell
Foundation setting the vision going
forward, I'm really, really curious
to see how things will evolve.
>> I am as well.
And that actually reminds me, one thing
that you could do today to kind of play
around with dependently type Haskell
would be to bolt on Liquid Haskell, right?
As the --- I mean, refinement
types are different than dependent
types, but they're similar.
So, you know, again, like, talking
about some hypothetical complex
Haskell handbook, that could be a
way to augment this CI system, add
liquid Haskell annotations to it.
>> Absolutely, yeah.
It still feels kind of hacky.
Like as much as I like the effort,
I like --- I struggle to see
myself in like using Liquid Haskell
in --- today, as it is today.
So again, I wonder what it --- if
my opinion would change if we had a,
you know, a compiler that understands
dependent types at the core.
And it's not something that's bolted on.
>> Right, yeah.
It being integrated
definitely makes a difference.
In a previous life I worked with Clojure.
And Clojure has a bolt-on type
system called, or at the time
it was called, core dot typed.
I don't know if it's different now.
And it's, you know, amazing that it
works and it works reasonably well.
But at the end of the day,
it is an afterthought to the
language and the ecosystem.
So that made it not
very nice to work with.
As compared to, you know, Haskell
or wherever where it's built in.
>> Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
I am --- like, I'm also looking forward
to seeing how projects like Unison evolve.
That's another one that
I'm keeping an eye on.
I don't know.
I think we're bound to see some innovation
in the functional programming space.
I think this is not the end of it.
Like we have a rock solid
production grade to compiler.
And it's getting better by the day.
But I think we will see some
dramatic, you know, improvement one
way or another in the coming years.
>> I'm very happy
you brought up Unison.
But I'm curious.
What about it is appealing to you?
Because I think from what I'm aware
of, it has two kind of novel features.
One is that it's more structured, right?
It's like a Git repository for
your functions and it stores them
in a normalized form and you can
do refactoring and all this stuff.
And then also it has an effect system
that is similar to the effect system
like PureScript used to have, or that
get mixed into the Haskell ecosystem.
So is it one of those things that
it appeals to you or something else?
>> Yeah, the  effect system
actually makes me cringe.
I hated it when PureScript had
it, and I'm glad they moved to a
more, you know, IO like system.
But I really liked the database aspect.
Like, the fact that each
function is its own definition.
And, you know, that dramatically
lowers the bar to collaboration and
potentially open source contributions.
Because then you can just provide that
tiny little function and it becomes
immediately available to, not only
your project, but potentially all
other projects, because it carries
around all of its dependencies.
And so, if such an ecosystem,
with some sort of global database,
where to spin up, I think that
would be pretty game changing.
>> I agree.
There have been so many times in Haskell
and in every language I've worked with
where there's some helper function deep
in some package that I depend on and like
--- or sorry that I don't depend on, and I'm
like, well, do I want to pull in this
giant package for this one tiny function?
No.
Or, okay, I'll just reimplement it
myself, but that's a waste of effort.
If I could just point to that
one thing, that'd be great.
>> Exactly, exactly.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
All right, Marco.
Well, I think we've
talked --- we've talked about a
lot of great stuff here today.
Is there anything else
you want to talk about?
>> No, I think that's enough.
>> Okay.
Yeah, we don't want to be here all day.
Or, or maybe we do, we
can always have your back.
>> For sure.
>> So yeah, it has been
great talking with you and get to
know you and exploring the book.
Thank you for spending time with us today.
>> Thank you for having me.
It's been great.
>> Okay, all right.
And thank you listeners for listening
to the Haskell Weekly podcast.
I've been your host Taylor Fausak
and with me today was Marco.
You want to say your name?
>> Marco Sampellegrini.
>> Thank you.
If you want to find out more about
Haskell Weekly, you can go to
our website, HaskellWeekly.News.
And Marco, if people want to find out
more about you, where should they go?
>> Well, given the complexity of
my name, you can just look up simple
Haskell book and something will come up.
You will eventually land on my
website with all of my profiles.
>> Sounds good.
And we'll have links to those
in the show notes as well.
We are brought to you by our employer,
ITProTV an ACI Learning company.
And they would like to offer you 30% off
the lifetime of your subscription by using
promo code HaskellWeekly30 at itpro.tv.
So that'll do it for us this week.
And thank you for listening
to the Haskell Weekly podcast.
We'll see you next week.
Bye.